# Problem Solving App

This is my long term backburner project. The immediate goal is to provide a new intuitive way for students from the level of advancd high school through undergraduate college to solve problems that have an answer consisting of a number with a unit. I have tested this concept on 200 level college physics homework problems and it is highly effective, but slow to implement with pencil and paper due to the recursive nature of the problem solving process. The concept may also be useful for science and engineering professionals, albeit with added functionality that is far beyond my current math and programming abilities.

This app will allow complex problem solving to be done quickly, efficiently and rigourously, entirely through the use of a graphical interface. 

# Current project goals: 

- Rebuild the functioning React App environment (I unwisely neglected to push some of my code to GitHub and subsequently suffered a data loss when my old computer failed.) (Done)
- Create and hook up a user friendly graphical interface (next)
- add support for units and dimensional analysis checking
- fix major bug that crashes the app in certain cases when multivariable function nodes are created by adding an accumulator to the main algorithm's recursive function nesting process

# medium term goals:

- add support for complex numbers
- add a CAS (computer algebra system) so that the evaluator function, and thus the answers to problems, can have variables in addition to a single numerical value with attached unit
- add support for problems involving systems of equations
- improve the user interface to provide a more intuitive picture of the expression tree's current state (this is rather difficult and well beyond my current React and CSS abilities)

# long term goals:

- add a symbol bank that will allow the user to insert common functions, operators, constants etc. graphically rather than typing them
- generalize the main algorithm so that functions are implemented in a more mathematically rigorous way, allowing additional arbitrary (within reason) functions to be easily added without a main algorithm rewrite.
- optimize the main algorithm for performance, for example finding ways to eliminate slow operations like array.prototype.shift()
- write my own React wrapper for the editable math field component to ensure project longevity and allow fine grained control over the LaTex strings generated by the editable math field component, or even better, do away with the LaTex output strings and implement my own parser to track, store, and manipulate user input as it comes in, leaving the LaTex strings to do what they do best, displaying pretty math equations.
- add functionality for exporting a Tex file that displays the problem and its long form solution in a presentable way.
- add a back end so users can store and share problems and problem snippets, as well as create their own libray of constants, units, etc.
- implement an actual parser for the output of the editable math field (something more along the lines of a formal grammar than the hackjob currently in place) This will likely involve a great deal of study on my part and won't happen for a while.

# Long long term goals...

- Change the way people solve problems forever! The two dimensional surfaces of paper, whiteboards etc. are an unneccessary limitation in the information age! Computers provide an \*infinite dimensional working surface, allowing complex symbolic relationships to be broken down into their simplest component parts and reassembled at will. We are still doing problem solving in school the same way we did hundreds of years ago. This app will streamline and elucidate the problem solving process, outsourcing busy work to the machine while leaving the problem solver to concentrate on the actual problem solving!

